Aim: Understanding Basic Networking Commands 
1.1	ifconfig
Used to view information about all network interfaces on your Linux system
1.2	ifconfig -a
To get info about both active and inactive network interfaces, run ifconfig with the -a option
1.3	ifconfig -s
Use the -s flag with ifconfig to display a concise summary of every active interface
1.4	ifconfig -v
As opposed to the -s flag, the verbose option (-v) prints a more detailed output. Depending on the system, the outcome is either the same as ifconfig without arguments or slightly more in-depth.
1.5	ifconfig | grep inet
The grep command is used to search for patterns in text. When you pipe the output of ifconfig to grep, it will search for all lines that contain the string "inet". This will print all of the IP addresses that are assigned to the system's interfaces.                                                                                                              
2.1	ip address
This option is used to show all IP addresses associated with all network devices.
2.2	ip addr show enp3s0
Use if we want to view the information of any particular interface
2.3	ip link
It is used to display link layer information
2.4	ip -s link
link option when used with -s option is used to show the statistics of the various network interfaces.      
2.5	ip route
This command helps you to see the route packets your network will take as set in your routing table. The first entry is the default route.
3.1	traceroute 192.168.1.141
tracks the path a packet takes from source to destination on an IP network
3.2	traceroute  -4 google.com
Use ip version 4 i.e. use IPv4
3.3	traceroute -6 google.com
use ip version 6 i.e. use IPv6
3.4	traceroute -F google.com
Do not fragment packet
3.5	traceroute -m 5 google.com
Set the max number of hops for the packet to reach the destination.Default value is 30.
4.1	ping www.google.com
To check your internet connection
4.2	ping -c 2 www.geeksforgeeks.org
used to define the number of packets to send to the server/host
4.3	ping -w 3 www.geeksforgeeks.org 
This command instructs the system to stop pinging the specified website after waiting for 3 seconds
4.4	ping -f www.geeksforgeeks.org
To flood a network with PING packets for testing network performance, use the `-f` option with the PING command.
4.5	ping -s 40 www.geeksforgeeks.org 
we can send light and heavy packet to host by using -s option.
5.1	tracepath
It will print the general syntax of the command along with the various options that can be used with the tracepath command as well as gives a brief description about each option.
5.2	tracepath -n www.google.com
This option prints primarily IP addresses numerically 	
5.3	tracepath -b www.makemytrip.com
This option print both of host names and IP addresses
5.4	tracepath -m 31 www.google.com
This option will set maximum hops (or maximum TTLs) to max_hops instead of 30
5.5	tracepath -p 8080 www.google.com
This option will set the initial destination port to use
6.1	netstat
generates displays that show network status and protocol statistics
6.2	netstat -e
displays Ethernet statistics, including the number of bytes and packets sent and received
6.3	netstat -n
displays network connections and listening ports in numerical format (IP addresses and port numbers) instead of resolving them to hostnames and service names.
6.4	netstat -o
displays active network connections and includes the process ID (PID) associated with each connection.
6.5	netstat -r
The -r option of netstat displays the IP routing table. Here is a sample display produced by netstat -r run on machine tenere.
7.1	nslookup
used for querying the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain information about domain names, IP addresses, and related DNS records.
7.2	nslookup www.google.com
retrieve and display the IP address associated with the domain name "www.google.com" by querying the DNS.
7.3	nslookup -q=mx www.google.com
Initiates a DNS query specifically for Mail Exchange (MX) records. This will retrieve and display the mail servers responsible for handling email for the specified domain.
7.4	nslookup -type=ns wikipedia.org
This command queries the DNS for the authoritative Name Server (NS) records for the domain "example.com." 
7.5	nslookup -type=any google.com
Lookup for any record We can also view all the available DNS records using the -type=any option.
8.1	route print
display the current IP routing table.
8.2	route print -6
displays only the IPv6 routing table. This command provides information about IPv6 routes.
8.3	route -F
The ROUTE -F command is used in Windows to flush the IPv4 routing table. It clears all entries from the routing table, effectively removing all configured routes
8.4	route -p
manipulates network routing tables
8.5	route delete 127.0.01
used to remove a specific route from the routing table.
9.1	hostname
In Windows, running HOSTNAME in the command prompt will display the current hostname of the computer.
9.2	echo %COMPUTERNAME%
displays the name of the computer in uppercase
9.3	set "_CLUSTER_NETWORK_NAME_=Shrutik_LAPTOP-6BJ1JG3N"
To alter the hostname output
10.1	curl www.google.com
This command sends a GET request to "https://www.google.com" and displays the response on the terminal.


10.2	curl -v https://www.google.com
used to switch on verbose mode
10.3	curl -vL https://www.google.com
used to ask for both verbose mode and that curl follows HTTP redirects
10.4	curl -A "shrutik gupta" https://www.google.com 
used to pass on an argument to an option
11.1	arp /a
used to display the arp cache tables for all interfaces, type
11.2	arp -s 192.168.1.2 ab:cd:ef:gh:ij:kl
used to add a new entry to the ARP cache
11.3	arp -d 192.168.1.2
used to remove an entry from the ARP cache
11.4	arp -v
This option shows the verbose information.
11.5	arp -H ether
This tells arp which class of entries it should check for.
12.1	whois tsec.edu
WHOIS is used to query a database and retrieve information about the registration details of domain names, including ownership, registration and expiration dates, name servers, and contact information.
12.2	whois -H tsec.edu
When you use the ‘whois’ command, the output often includes legal disclaimers. If you want to hide these disclaimers, you can use the -H flag.
12.3	whois -i tsec.edu
By default, the ‘whois’ command is case-sensitive. However, you can make it case-insensitive by using the -i flag.
12.4	whois -l tsec.edu
If you’re writing a script and need the output of the ‘whois’ command to be on one line, you can use the -l flag.
13.1	ss
The output returns a list of open non-listening sockets with established connections.
13.2	ss --all
List all listening and non-listening connections with
13.3	ss --listen
used to display only listening sockets, which are omitted by default
13.4	ss --tcp
used to list TCP connections
13.5	ss -udp
used to show a list of UDP connections	
14.1	dig redhat.com 
When you pass a domain name to the dig command, by default it displays the A record
14.2	dig redhat.com +noall +answer
+noanswer – Turn off the answer section
14.3	dig redhat.com MX +noall +answer
To query MX records, pass MX as an argument to the dig comman
14.4	dig redhat.com NS +noall +answer
To query the NS record use the type NS
14.5	dig @ns1.redhat.com redhat.com
By default dig uses the DNS servers defined in your /etc/resolv.conf file. If you like to use a different DNS server to perform the query, specify it in the command line as @dnsserver.
15.1	mtr -t baeldung.com 	
The -t option indicates we want to see the output in the curses-based terminal
15.2	mtr -o ‘SA’ -t baeldung.com
Suppose we are only interested in the Snt and Avg columns. We could launch mtr with the -o option.
15.3	mtr -m 3 -t baeldung.com
we can use the -m option to limit the nodes that we want to investigate.
15.4	mtr -f 3 -t baeldung.com
We can filter out the first two hops using the -f option.
15.5	mtr -r baeldung.com
we can let mtr do the job for a while and read the result later with the -r option.
