Aim: To study grep(global regular expression print) commands

grep pattern file
Searches for a pattern in a file.

grep -i pattern file
Ignores uppercase/lowercase of the pattern and the input files.

grep -r pattern directory
Searches for a pattern recursively in all files in a directory and subdirectory.

grep -n pattern file
Displays line numbers that contain the matching pattern.

grep pattern file1 file2
Displays both filenames and lines where the pattern is found.

grep -l pattern file1 file2
Displays only the filenames where the pattern is found.

grep -h pattern file1 file2
Displays only the lines containing the matching pattern.

grep -v pattern file
Displays lines that do not match the pattern.

grep -c pattern file
Counts the number of lines that match the pattern.

grep -e pattern1 -e pattern2 file
Searches for multiple patterns.

grep -e pattern1 -e pattern2 file1 file2
Searches for multiple patterns in multiple files.

egrep "pattern1|pattern2|..." file
Searches for multiple patterns (same as -e)

grep -f keywords.txt file
Searches for patterns in keywords.txt that is present in a given file 
(use case - example- we cannot use -e if we want to search for 50 patterns, so we store those 50 patterns in a file 'keywords.txt' and use -f command to check if those 50 words are present in any xyz file)

grep -E 'pattern' file
Uses extended regular expressions (supports +, ?, () etc.).

grep -w pattern file
Matches only exact words.

grep -R pattern directory
Searches for all files except those matching the given pattern.

grep -a pattern binaryfile
Searches binary files as if they were text.

grep 'pattern1.*pattern2' file
Searches for lines matching multiple patterns (AND).

grep '^pattern' file
Searches for line that starts with the given pattern.

grep 'pattern$' file
Searches for line that ends with the given pattern.

grep -q pattern file
Searches without printing
echo $? 
To know if search successful or not
OUTPUT - 0: search successful
OUTPUT - 1: search unsuccessful

grep pattern file1 > file2
Move the lines containing that pattern to another file 